all right so we're standing behind a 98
70 John Deere combine and I want to
spend just a few minutes here with you
discussing the importance of residue
management at the back of the combine
with a straw chopper I'd like to draw
your attention to these four photos just
showing different challenges as a result
of not being able to spread residues so
I'm not picking on any brand or type of
combine within a series but this combine
as you can see is not spreading residue
evenly across the head of wood and the
net result is you've got heavy
concentrated bands of residue and then
you got regions with no residue at all
so regardless of what seeding equipment
you run if you're trying to set a cedar
to seed into heavy residue compared to
no residue then it's just gonna give you
a lot of challenges and that's that's
basically the importance of residue
management successful no-till or a
conventional till either one
absolutely starts with uniform delivery
of residue out of the back of the
combine across the wait for the of the
header okay so that's where it starts so
let it start out this is a ready cut
chopper okay this is what we call the
Mag+ or the or the new mass with a large
diameter rotor this chopper combination
is designed to spray it around 35 36 37
feet the combine that we're standing
behind has a 36 foot platform on it so
this chopper will do a pretty good job
spread it evenly and that's important to
the word evenly but it's important to
spread evenly across the head of wood so
a couple of other things it's really
important on the John Deere STS machines
to be sure that you're delivering
material evenly into the chopper so if
you go into the chopper itself you look
at this the wear on the stationery
knives the retractable knives
and if you find one end or the center or
the other end has got more wear on the
stationary knives and the other Center
or other
and then that gives you a good
indication that for whatever reason a
combine like this is delivering more
material one side or the other okay
you're the combine that I'll mention in
a minute is delivering more to one end
so it's important to know how to adjust
the residue on any combine so it feeds
evenly into the chopper if you feed
residue even evenly into the chopper
you're not going to overload one end
compared to the other and it will get
you more uniform residue distribution
out of the back on an SDS machine
especially the 70 series you have
adjustable vanes what we call discharge
veins inside the machine that basically
positions or directs the residue into
one side the center the other side or
wherever you want to direct it to get
even distribution into the chopper under
ready cut machines also got what we call
an adjustable tail board where you can
raise or lower the tail board obviously
as you raise the tail board it spreads
wider as you lower the tail board it
concentrates the spread weight into a
narrower area so this is a nice feature
if you make something that's easy to
adjust there's a good chance that people
are going to adjust it by contrast some
of the factory models it takes wrenches
sockets sometimes modifications to get
it to spread the way you want it if it's
going to take a lot of time with
wrenches to make these changes the
chances are some of the operators
probably aren't going to take that time
so yeah a lot of things but adjusting
the tail board just in the direction of
residue flow into the chopper are two
real important points to spread residue
better with a chopper such as this all
right so we're standing behind in ninety
eight seventy in this example with a
standard sharper tail board so this is
obviously not the advanced power cast
not the
standard podcast is just a standard
tailor board and in my opinion in most
conditions most crops most moisture
conditions this tailboard is good for 30
to 35 feet spread wood depending on
certain factors okay so 30 to 35 feet
and the smoother things we can talk
about later on to get it out wider this
chopper has got 40 stationery knives
that measure an inch and a quarter apart
the ready cut that we showed a few
minutes ago that's 48 stationary knives
an inch apart so you get a slightly
finer shot with the ready car compared
to this one and if you want to chop
residue fine then the tie the nice knife
spacing is obviously important but don't
I don't like to cut residue to fine
because the finer you chop residue the
more difficult it is to spread it now on
an SDS machine you're obviously blending
chat with residue which is a big
positive because it's really hard to
spread check so if you can blend for
example wheat we check in with wheat
straw leave the Chuck length a little
longer by retracting the stationary
knives you can spray chaff and the straw
together across the working works better
than separately trying to spread straw
and separately scribe Thomas
child so not a bad system but if you
want to get out - why - whiz you need to
power cast or the advanced power path
which does even better than the power
you